Most plants are passive, but carnivorous, venomous plants have been occasionally noted as catching unwary birds.
Pitcher plants, for example, can trap birds that sip at their tempting nectar and inadvertently fall into their deep wells.
Since the bird cannot escape, it will eventually be digested by the plant.
Plants are alive, just like people and animals. How do we know this? Living things all do certain things:
They grow and die.
They need energy, nutrients, air, and water.
They produce young.
They are made up of cells.
They react to what's around them.
Some seeds have an outer layer called a seed coat, which provides protection and food for the seed.
When a seed grows, a small root begins to grow downward and a shoot grows upward.
When the shoot hits the surface, the plant is called a sprout.
The sprout uses water and nutrients from the soil along with sunlight and air to grow and change into a seedling.
Plants are classified by the number of growing seasons required to complete their life cycle. Generally, these groups are annuals, biennials, and perennials.
Annuals will provide continuous blooms throughout the growing season, while biennials provide blooms during their second year of growth.
Perennials will bloom for 2 to 8 weeks or longer, however, bloom time will vary and can occur during the beginning, middle, or end of the growing season.
Annuals take a single year to complete a full life cycle. Most are planted in the spring, bloom in the summer, and die in the fall.
A few, known as winter annuals, germinate in the later summer and autumn, are dormant during the winter, and grow during the next spring and summer.
Many plants treated as annuals in northern climates such as Pennsylvania are actually perennials when grown in southern climates.
These plants are not cold hardy and are not able to withstand winter temperatures in our hardiness zones (zones 4b to 6b, average annual minimum temperature between -25 F and 0 F).
Except for those that reseed themselves, annuals will not grow a second year unless they are replanted. Annuals are frequently grouped as "hardy," "half-hardy," or "tender."
When seed can be sown outdoors in the spring
Their capability to tolerate early spring and fall frosts and winter temperatures
A dusty skinned, seed-filled, juicy vegetable.
A bitter, shriveled vegetable.
A dark, rare vegetable.
Can be classified as either herbaceous or pulpy.
Can be classified as either coniferous or hairy.
A cold weather, hearty vegetable, valued for its pulpy flesh.
Include plants such as pansies, ornamental kale, and dusty miller
Are able to withstand cold soil and hard frosts
May be winter hardy, and able to survive winter temperatures if sown in the fall, depending on the severity of the winter
Ideal for cool weather gardens although they often will die in the heat of summer.
Can withstand a limited amount of cold temperatures and light frost. Although, if the seed is sown too early and germinates, even a light frost may damage the seedlings.
Summer heat may cause half-hardy annuals to decline, but cooler fall temperatures seem to revive the plants, often inducing growth and blooming.
Include plants such as impatiens, vinca, and zinnia
Cannot withstand freezing temperatures.
Should be sown outdoors only after the danger of frost has passed.
Seed is often sown in a greenhouse during the spring and grown to small plants that are transplanted in the garden after the last frost
Will grow fairly well and bloom throughout the heat of the summer
A plant might grow as a hardy annual, or even be treated as a hardy biennial or perennial, in the lower Delaware Valley area of southeastern Pennsylvania.
These same plants may be considered a half-hardy or tender annual in the Laurel Highlands of southwestern Pennsylvania.
Biennials take twice as long to complete a full life cycle as annuals.
They require a dormant period, induced by cold temperatures, between plant growth and blooming.
Biennials are usually sown in the spring, vegetative during the summer, dormant that fall, live in this inactive state through the winter, flower the second summer, set seed, and die during the following fall.
If biennials are grown in regions where winter temperatures are colder than the plants hardiness, a cold frame can be used as a temporary shelter for plants.
Some biennials can be treated as annuals by sowing seed in the summer that will germinate and be exposed to chilling temperatures to induce flowering in the fall and over winter, and resume growth and flower the next spring.
Perennials used in Pennsylvania landscapes are cold hardy enough to survive winter temperatures, hence they live longer than both annuals and biennials.
Can be classified as either herbaceous or woody.
A seedling is a small plant with few leaves. Later the seedling changes into a young adult plant.
Asexual reproduction may happen through budding, fragmentation, fission, spore formation and vegetative propagation.
Plants have two main types of asexual reproduction in which new plants are produced that are genetically identical clones of the parent individual.
Vegetative reproduction involves a vegetative piece of the original plant (budding, tillering, etc.) and is distinguished from apomixis, which is a replacement for sexual reproduction, and in some cases involves seeds.
Apomixis occurs in many plant species and also in some non-plant organisms. For apomixis and similar processes in non-plant organisms, see parthenogenesis.
Natural vegetative reproduction is mostly a process found in herbaceous and woody perennial plants, and typically involves structural modifications of the stem or roots and in a few species leaves.
Most plant species that employ vegetative reproduction do so as a means to perennialize the plants, allowing them to survive from one season to the next and often facilitating their expansion in size.
A plant that persists in a location through vegetative reproduction of individuals constitutes a clonal colony; a single ramet, or apparent individual, of a clonal colony is genetically identical to all others in the same colony.
The distance that a plant can move during vegetative reproduction is limited, though some plants can produce ramets from branching rhizomes or stolons that cover a wide area, often in only a few growing seasons. In a sense, this process is not one of reproduction but one of survival and expansion of biomass of the individual.
When an individual organism increases in size via cell multiplication and remains intact, the process is called vegetative growth. However, in vegetative reproduction, the new plants that result are new individuals in almost every respect except genetic.
A major disadvantage to vegetative reproduction, is the transmission of pathogens from parent to offspring; it is uncommon for pathogens to be transmitted from the plant to its seeds (in sexual reproduction or in apomixis), though there are occasions when it occurs.[1]
Seeds generated by apomixis are a means of asexual reproduction, involving the formation and dispersal of seeds that do not originate from the fertilization of the embryos.
Hawkweed (Hieracium), dandelion (Taraxacum), some Citrus (Citrus) and Kentucky blue grass (Poa pratensis) all use this form of asexual reproduction.
Pseudogamy occurs in some plants that have apomictic seeds, where pollination is often needed to initiate embryo growth, though the pollen contributes no genetic material to the developing offspring.
Other forms of apomixis occur in plants also, including the generation of a plantlet in replacement of a seed or the generation of bulbils instead of flowers, where new cloned individuals are produced.
Asexual reproduction is a type of reproduction where the offspring comes from one parent only, thus, inheriting the characteristics of the parent.
A rhizome is a modified underground stem serving as an organ of vegetative reproduction; the growing tips of the rhizome can separate as new plants, e.g., polypody, iris, couch grass and nettles.
Prostrate aerial stems, called runners or stolons, are important vegetative reproduction organs in some species, such as the strawberry, numerous grasses, and some ferns.
Adventitious buds form on roots near the ground surface, on damaged stems (as on the stumps of cut trees), or on old roots.
These develop into above-ground stems and leaves. A form of budding called suckering is the reproduction or regeneration of a plant by shoots that arise from an existing root system. Species that characteristically produce suckers include Elm (Ulmus), Dandelion (Taraxacum), and many members of the Rose family such as Rosa and Rubus.
Plants like onion (Allium cepa), hyacinth (Hyacinth), narcissus (Narcissus) and tulips (Tulipa) reproduce by dividing their underground bulbs into more bulbs.
Other plants like potatoes (Solanum tuberosum) and dahlia (Dahlia) reproduce by a similar method involving underground tubers.
Gladioli and crocuses (Crocus) reproduce in a similar way with corms.
