Most plants are passive, but carnivorous, venomous plants have been occasionally noted as catching unwary birds. Pitcher plants, for example, can trap birds that sip at their tempting nectar and inadvertently fall into their deep wells. Since the bird cannot escape, it will eventually be digested by the plant.

Plants are alive, just like people and animals. How do we know this? Living things all do certain things:
They grow and die.
They need energy, nutrients, air, and water.
They produce young.
They are made up of cells.
They react to what's around them.

Some seeds have an outer layer called a seed coat, which provides protection and food for the seed. When a seed grows, a small root begins to grow downward and a shoot grows upward. When the shoot hits the surface, the plant is called a sprout. The sprout uses water and nutrients from the soil along with sunlight and air to grow and change into a seedling.

Plants are classified by the number of growing seasons required to complete their life cycle. Generally, these groups are annuals, biennials, and perennials. Annuals will provide continuous blooms throughout the growing season, while biennials provide blooms during their second year of growth. Perennials will bloom for 2 to 8 weeks or longer, however, bloom time will vary and can occur during the beginning, middle, or end of the growing season.

Annuals

Annuals take a single year to complete a full life cycle. Most are planted in the spring, bloom in the summer, and die in the fall. A few, known as winter annuals, germinate in the later summer and autumn, are dormant during the winter, and grow during the next spring and summer. Many plants treated as annuals in northern climates such as Pennsylvania are actually perennials when grown in southern climates. These plants are not cold hardy and are not able to withstand winter temperatures in our hardiness zones (zones 4b to 6b, average annual minimum temperature between -25 F and 0 F). Except for those that reseed themselves, annuals will not grow a second year unless they are replanted. Annuals are frequently grouped as "hardy," "half-hardy," or "tender." This refers to:

When seed can be sown outdoors in the spring
Their capability to tolerate early spring and fall frosts and winter temperatures
Hardy annuals

Include plants such as pansies, ornamental kale, and dusty miller
Are able to withstand cold soil and hard frosts
May be winter hardy, and able to survive winter temperatures if sown in the fall, depending on the severity of the winter
Ideal for cool weather gardens although they often will die in the heat of summer.

Can withstand a limited amount of cold temperatures and light frost. Although, if the seed is sown too early and germinates, even a light frost may damage the seedlings.
Summer heat may cause half-hardy annuals to decline, but cooler fall temperatures seem to revive the plants, often inducing growth and blooming.
Tender annuals

Include plants such as impatiens, vinca, and zinnia
Cannot withstand freezing temperatures
Should be sown outdoors only after the danger of frost has passed.
Seed is often sown in a greenhouse during the spring and grown to small plants that are transplanted in the garden after the last frost
Will grow fairly well and bloom throughout the heat of the summer
A plant might grow as a hardy annual, or even be treated as a hardy biennial or perennial, in the lower Delaware Valley area of southeastern Pennsylvania. Yet these same plants may be considered a half-hardy or tender annual in the Laurel Highlands of southwestern Pennsylvania.

Biennials

Biennials take twice as long to complete a full life cycle as annuals. They require a dormant period, induced by cold temperatures, between plant growth and blooming. Biennials are usually sown in the spring, vegetative during the summer, dormant that fall, live in this inactive state through the winter, flower the second summer, set seed, and die during the following fall. If biennials are grown in regions where winter temperatures are colder than the plants hardiness, a cold frame can be used as a temporary shelter for plants.

Some biennials can be treated as annuals by sowing seed in the summer that will germinate and be exposed to chilling temperatures to induce flowering in the fall and over winter, and resume growth and flower the next spring.

Perennials

Perennials used in Pennsylvania landscapes are cold hardy enough to survive winter temperatures, hence they live longer than both annuals and biennials. Perennials are classified as either herbaceous or woody.

A seedling is a small plant with few leaves. Later the seedling changes into a young adult plant.
