If properly buried with adequate rites and continually remembered, the spirits of the dead could be of great benefit to the living and watch over them throughout their lives. There was a significant difference, however, in Egyptian understanding of a "spirit" who resided peacefully in the Field of Reeds and a "ghost" who returned to earth.

In ancient Greece, the afterlife consisted of three distinct realms. When one died, a coin would be placed in one's mouth to pay Charon the Ferryman to take the soul across the river Styx. This coin wasn't "payment" exactly as much as a sign of respect between the soul and the gods - the greater the value of the coin, the better seat the soul got in Charon's boat. Once the soul was on the other side, one would pass by the three-headed dog Cerberus and then stand before the three judges to give an account of the life one had lived. When the story had been told, and as the judges conferred, one would be given a cup of water from the River Lethe, the waters of forgetfulness, and would forget one's former life on earth. The judges would then assign the soul a location: if you had been a warrior who died in battle, you went to the Elysian Fields which were a paradise; if you had been a good person, you went to the Plain of Asphodel, also pleasant; if you had been a bad person, then you went to the darkness of Tartarus where the soul remained until it had atoned for the sins of one's life. No soul was "condemned to eternal damnation". The soul in Tartarus could become elevated to the Plain of Asphodel in time. As in the cultures of Mesopotamia and Egypt, souls were not expected to return to earth for any reason, but sometimes they still did. This same basic paradigm was adopted by the Roman culture who held a much more deep-seated belief in ghosts than the Greeks.

Ghostly cereal-hawking mascot, often appearing in conjunction with Count Chocula and Franken Berry; former associate of Fruit Brute and Fruity Yummy Mummy.
The restless ghost of a deceased person, usually appearing in human form but with backward-facing feet. Bhoots tend to appear in white, often floating above the ground or in trees, and cast no shadow.
Other urban legends may come and go, but proud Mary keeps on burning. As long as there are sleepover parties, there will be someone bold enough to say her name three times in front of a mirror at midnight. We should totally hook her up with Betelgeuse. Or the Candyman.
The ghost that leaves the body with a person’s last breath, containing everything that was bad or unharmonious in their spirit.
After death, the dead person’s name is never spoken and their remains and possessions are avoided in order to avoid chindi-inflicted “ghost sickness.”

The ancient Aztecs regarded childbirth as a form of battle, so women who died giving birth were honored as fallen warriors. In death, they became the fearsome Cihuateteo, known for haunting crossroads, causing sickness and madness, and stealing children. Do not get on their bad side.
One of the first ghosts to appear in a work of fiction, Aeschylus’s Oresteia (458 BC) portrays her as a scheming femme fatale who murders her husband and is in turn killed by her son, Orestes. Her vengeful spirit appears to spur The Furies to action, urging them to torment and punish Orestes. Even in death, she’s not a woman to be trifled with…
Undead Vikings who possess superhuman strength, the ability to swell and increase their size or shapeshift at will, and reek of decay. They delight in violently slaughtering and sometimes consuming their victims, usually people who have trespassed on the graves or burial mounds the draugr guards, although sometimes they roam and rampage, killing animals and humans alike.
Understands all languages it spoke in life but can’t Speak.
Before the coming of the gods, this being lurked in primordial oceans and underground lakes. They reached out with their minds and seized control of the burgeoning life-forms of the mortal realm, making those creatures their slaves. Their dominance made them
like gods. Then the true gods appeared, smashing the aboleths' empire and freeing their slaves.
A celestial agent sent forth into the planes to further its god's agenda for weal or woe. Its sublime beauty and presence can drive awestruck onlookers to their knees.
This empty steel shell clamors as it moves, heavy
plates banging and grinding against one another like the vengeful spirit of a fallen knight.
Ponderous but persistent, this magical guardian is almost always a suit of plate armor.
When night falls, unlucky travelers hear the faint cries of the forlorn dead. This woeful spirit is a banshee, a spiteful creature formed from the spirit of a female elf.
Banshees appear as luminous, wispy forms that vaguely recall their mortal features.
A banshee's face is wreathed in a wild tangle of hair, its body clad in wispy rags that flutter and stream around it.
The offspring of a fiend (usually a succubus or incubus) and a humanoid (usually a human).
When a paladin that falls from grace dies without seeking atonement, dark powers can transform the once-mortal knight into a hateful undead creature. A death knight is a skeletal warrior clad in fearsome plate armor. Beneath its helmet, one can see the knight's skull with malevolent pinpoints of light burning in its eye sockets.
The immortality granted to a lich lasts only as long as it feeds mortal souls to its phylactery. If it falters or fails in that task, its bones turn to dust until only its skull remains. This "demilich" contains only a fragment of the lich's malevolent life force- just enough so that if it is disturbed, these remains rise into the air and assume a wraithlike form. The skull then emits a terrifying howl that can slay the weak-hearted and leave others trembling with fear. Left alone, it sinks back down and returns to the empty peace of its existence.
Few liches seek to become demiliches, for it means an end to the existence they hoped to preserve by becoming undead. However, time can erode the lich's reason and memory, causing it to retreat into its ancient tomb and forget to feed on souls. The spells it once knew fade
from its mind, and it no longer channels the arcane energy it wielded as a lich. However, even as a mere skull it remains a deadly and vexing enemy.
Physically weak, they keep to the shadows to plot mischief and wickedness.
Translucent, smelling of burnt offerings. Heralded by the sound of crying children and burning family albums. Surrounded by a shroud of cold air and suffocating darkness.
Slimy, shimmering in the moonlight. Intangible, it electrifies the air that surrounds it. Barely perceptible, only in the light of a new moon. It hunts at midnight on Samhain. It awakens on the first dusk of the autumn equinox. It rises from its grave at the stroke of midnight of the winter solstice.
It is eternally restless.
It is playful but cruel.
It lures children to drown, burying their bodies deep beneath the muddy floor of its swamp to soften.
It burns brightly with a cold, piercing light.
Ravens circle it, heralding calamity.
A silent spectre.
