A bird life begins within an egg.
A special hard structure called the egg tooth forms on the baby bird’s beak to help it break the egg shell.
This special tooth drops off a few days later.
A baby bird that has just hatched is called
a hatchling. While the hatchling is growing in the nest and being fed by its parents we call it a nestling.
When a nestling grows its flight feathers and is ready to leave the nest it takes its first flight or fledges.
We call a bird that has just fledged a fledgling.
A fledgling has fluffy down feathers and is often fed by its parents for several weeks more.
Its flight feathers continue to grow and its wing muscles get stronger.
When a fledgling or juvenile has finished growing it becomes a mature or adult bird.
An adult bird attracts a mate, builds a nest and raises young to start the cycle all over again.
Some birds migrate or travel long distances as part of their life cycle.
Other birds stay in one area throughout the seasons.
Many birds migrate as a part of their life cycle, and most build a nest from sticks, mud or other material.
Birds can live just two or three years to around 10.
Birds begin their life inside a hard egg.
This bird drinks nectar from plants at dusk.
One or both of the parent birds will sit on the eggs to keep them warm until they hatch, for the birds know very well that the cat is their enemy, and scold at her when she comes near, especially when they have young ones.
When the birds hatch, they’re called nestlings. The nestlings have little or no features, so a parent continues to sit on the nest for a few days.
Then parent birds will bring them food so they can grow.
The nestlings grow into fledglings, which begin to feed themselves but still need their parents.
Birds leave their parents and the nest at the end of this stage.
Some species of bird migrate in the fall after they’ve reached adulthood. Others will stay in the same region.
Courtship varies between different birds and happens during migration for birds that migrate. It begins usually in late winter to early spring.
Next, the couple will build the nest. Most of the time, the female builds it. In some species such as a wren, the male will build the nest to attract the female.
After the nest is completed, the couple mates and the female lays eggs to begin the life cycle again.
The fox is a great enemy of the ground birds.
Partridges, pheasants, and grouse dread a fox at night, as the fowls and ducks do in the farmyard; while in the daytime the hawk is a terror to all birds.
The mother lark, on her nest, crouches down in the hope that the grass may hide her. The father lark, as he soars, rises or falls to try to escape.
Other little song-birds flutter away to the bushes; partridges run to cover, and pigeons hide in the wood when a hawk is near.
Many birds, which were quite common thirty years ago, are rare now because such a number of eggs and birds have been taken.
So laws have been made to protect the little song-birds, birds of prey, and sea-birds, as well as partridges and pheasants.
Then there are some parts of England where people are not allowed to take the eggs of wild birds at any time.
These are places, such as some of the Broads in Norfolk, and the sea-shore at Slapton Lee in Devonshire, where many birds breed.
You cannot know all these places, but there is one very safe rule. Do not take any eggs, nor kill any birds; then you are sure not to do wrong.
Most plants are passive, but carnivorous, venomous plants have been occasionally noted as catching unwary birds.
Pitcher plants, for example, can trap birds that sip at their tempting nectar and inadvertently fall into their deep wells.
Since the bird cannot escape, it will eventually be digested by the plant.
It is covered in delicate, colorful feathers.
It guards its eggs jealously.
It robs nests of other birds eggs which it raises as its own.
Its mating display is a complex ritual of insect entrapment, dance, and the calculated scattering of droppings.
Its feathers form a colden crest around its head.
It has a sharp, stunted beak.
It has an elongated, needle-like beak.
Its flesh is poisonous.
This bird is hunted by the local natives.
This bird's feathers are considered sacred.
